Salt bundle #16336 keichwa (#1309)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/client-configuration/pages/registration-methods-saltbundle.adoc

[[registration-methods-saltbundle]]
= Client Registration with Salt Bundle

The registration method with the Salt bundle is the recommended registration method as long as it covers your use case.
This section explains the advantages and limitations of the current implementation.
The Salt bundle is provided as the [package]``venv-salt-minion`` that consists of Salt, Python, and the Python modules Salt depends on.
Using the Salt bundle, in most cases it is no longer needed that the client provides the required Python version or any Python modules.
Bootstrapping with {webui} still requires Python to be installed on the client.

If you bootstrap new clients, registration with the Salt bundle is the default method.
You can switch existing clients to the Salt bundle method.
If you switch, the [package]``salt-minion`` package and its Python version and the Python modules will stay installed.

> The Salt state [literal]``util.mgr_switch_to_venv_minion`` is available to switch from [package]``salt-minion`` to [package]``venv-salt-minion``.  It is recommended to switch to [package]``venv-salt-minion`` in two steps:

Reviewer: I have one question here maybe for @vzhestkov about the switching to the salt bundle.

According to this: `It is recommended to switch to [package]``venv-salt-minion`` in two steps:`

Question: are these steps supposed to be executed sequentially or are they simply two separeted approaches? After reading this, it is not clear to me whether I need to mandatory do the two steps for the switch or it is ok only doing one.

Reviewer 2: These steps should be done sequentially. Actually the second one do the same but in addition remove the config files and the package of original salt minion, but if executed first most possible will fail as can't shift the state apply process to the bundle, so first step is installing the bundle and copying the config, the second stage is cleanup.

Author: ok, I tried the the description accordingly. If it is or sounds wrong, please provide review patch.  merging now...

[[registration-methods-saltbundle]]
= Client Registration with Salt Bundle

The registration method with the Salt bundle is the recommended registration method as long as it covers your use case.
This section explains the advantages and limitations of the current implementation.
The Salt bundle is provided as the [package]``venv-salt-minion`` that consists of Salt, Python, and the Python modules Salt depends on.

> Using the Salt bundle, in most cases it is no longer needed that the client provides the required Python version or any Python modules.

Reviewer 3: I could imagine that someone who reads this will ask themself "In what cases do I need a Python interpreter on the system and in what cases am I good without having one on the client system?"

The next line clarifies this a bit, it says that an interpreter is needed for boostrapping through the WebUI. We also support other bootstrapping mechanisms, isn't the interpreter needed as well?

I wonder if this sentence causes more confusion / uncertainty than it eliminates.

Author: Reading it again, I think you are right.  I'll at least temporarily remove it.  Thanks also for all the other clarifications and suggestions!

Bootstrapping with {webui} still requires Python to be installed on the client.

If you bootstrap new clients, registration with the Salt bundle is the default method.
You can switch existing clients to the Salt bundle method.
If you switch, the [package]``salt-minion`` package and its Python version and the Python modules will stay installed.

The Salt state [literal]``util.mgr_switch_to_venv_minion`` is available to switch from [package]``salt-minion`` to [package]``venv-salt-minion``.
It is recommended to switch to [package]``venv-salt-minion`` in two steps to avoid trouble with shifting processes:

.Procedure: Switching with [literal]``util.mgr_switch_to_venv_minion`` state to [package]``venv-salt-minion``

. Apply [literal]``util.mgr_switch_to_venv_minion`` with no pillar specified first.
  This will result in the switch to [package]``venv-salt-minion`` with copying configuration files etc.

>   It will not cleaning up the original [package]``salt-minion`` configurations and its packages.

Reviewer 3: Small grammar improvement:
```suggestion
  It will not clean up the original [package]``salt-minion`` configurations and its packages.
```

. Apply [literal]``util.mgr_switch_to_venv_minion`` with [literal]``mgr_purge_non_venv_salt`` set to [literal]``True`` to remove [package]``salt-minion`` and with [literal]``mgr_purge_non_venv_salt_files`` set to [literal]``True`` to remove all the files related to [package]``salt-minion``.
This second step repeats the first step, and then removes the old configuration files and the now obsolete [package]``salt-minion`` package.

On the other hand, it is also possible to avoid installing the Salt bundle and keep using [package]``salt-minion`` instead.
In this case specify one of these options:

* Execute [command]``mgr-bootstrap`` with  [option]``--no-bundle`` option.
* Set [literal]``AVOID_VENV_SALT_MINION`` to [literal]``1`` in the generated bootstrap script.

> * For bootstrap state set the [literal]``mgr_avoid_venv_salt_minion`` pillar set to [literal]``True``.

Reviewer 3: Small leftover:
```suggestion
* For bootstrap state set the [literal]``mgr_avoid_venv_salt_minion`` pillar to  [literal]``True``.
```

[[registration-methods-saltbundle]]
= Client Registration with Salt Bundle

> Since end of 2021, the registration method with the so-called Salt bundle is available.

Reviewer 4: Do we need to mention the date? I am also not sure "the so-called Salt bundle" is very official :-)

Author: ```suggestion
The registration method with the Salt bundle is the recommended registration method as long as it does not cover your use case.
This section explains the advantages and limitations of the current implementation.
```

> The Salt bundle is provided as the [package]``venv-salt-minion`` that consists of Salt and all the packages the version of Salt depends on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Salt bundle is provided as the [package]``venv-salt-minion`` that consists of Salt, Python and python modules Salt depends on.
```

> Using the Salt bundle it is no longer needed that the client provides the required Python version and [package]``python-xml`` package.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Using the Salt bundle it is no longer needed that the client provides the required Python version or any Python modules.
```

If you bootstrap new clients, registration with the Salt bundle is the default method.
You can switch existing clients to the Salt bundle method.

> If you switch, the [package]``salt-minion`` package and its Python version will stay installed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you switch, the [package]``salt-minion`` package and its Python version and the Python modules will stay installed.
```

> ////

Reviewer 4: Why is this commenteded?

Author: I feel I should change the wording a little bit first.

Author: I'll check this now.

Author: done and in.

Implemented the state to switch from salt-minion to venv-salt-minion - util.mgr_switch_to_venv_minion

It's better to run it in two steps:

    Apply it with no pillar specified first to switch to venv-salt-minion (copy config files etc., but not cleaning up the original salt-minion confgs and packages)
    Apply it with mgr_purge_non_venv_salt set to True to remove salt-minion and mgr_purge_non_venv_salt_files set to True to remove all the files related to salt-minion
////

On the other hand, it is also possible to avoid installing the Salt bundle and keep using [package]``salt-minion`` instead.
In this case specify one of these options:

* Execute [command]``mgr-bootstrap`` with  [option]``--no-bundle`` option.
* Set [literal]``AVOID_VENV_SALT_MINION`` to [literal]``1`` in the generated bootstrap script.
* For bootstrap state set the [literal]``mgr_avoid_venv_salt_minion`` pillar set to [literal]``True``.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> At the moment (2021), the Salt bundle does not support the Salt SSH contact method.

Reviewer 4: Do we need to mention the date?

Author: no, not necessarily.

Author: ```suggestion
The Salt bundle does not support the Salt SSH contact method.
```

[[registration-methods-saltbundle]]
= Client Registration with Salt Bundle

> The registration method with the Salt bundle is the recommended registration method as long as it does not cover your use case.

Reviewer 3: Could it be that the "not" should not be in the second half of this sentence?

Reviewer 2: The meaning of this sentance is not clear.

Author: Yes, sth went wrong.  Now I write (submitted locally):

> The registration method with the Salt bundle is the recommended registration method as long as it covers your use case.

This section explains the advantages and limitations of the current implementation.
The Salt bundle is provided as the [package]``venv-salt-minion`` that consists of Salt, Python, and the Python modules Salt depends on.

> Using the Salt bundle it is no longer needed that the client provides the required Python version or any Python modules.

Reviewer 2: Bootstrapping with web UI still requires Python to be installed on the client. Will be changed on implementing Salt-SSH with Salt Bundle

Author: locally changed accordingly.  will push later.

If you switch, the [package]``salt-minion`` package and its Python version and the Python modules will stay installed.
////
Implemented the state to switch from salt-minion to venv-salt-minion - util.mgr_switch_to_venv_minion

It's better to run it in two steps:

    Apply it with no pillar specified first to switch to venv-salt-minion (copy config files etc., but not cleaning up the original salt-minion confgs and packages)
    Apply it with mgr_purge_non_venv_salt set to True to remove salt-minion and mgr_purge_non_venv_salt_files set to True to remove all the files related to salt-minion
////

On the other hand, it is also possible to avoid installing the Salt bundle and keep using [package]``salt-minion`` instead.
In this case specify one of these options:

* Execute [command]``mgr-bootstrap`` with  [option]``--no-bundle`` option.
* Set [literal]``AVOID_VENV_SALT_MINION`` to [literal]``1`` in the generated bootstrap script.
* For bootstrap state set the [literal]``mgr_avoid_venv_salt_minion`` pillar set to [literal]``True``.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The Salt bundle does not support the Salt SSH contact method.
Stay with [package]``salt-minion`` package if you use Salt SSH.
====

> 

Reviewer 2: Bootstrapping client with Salt-SSH contact method is not using salt-minion, but the salt codebase is deployed with salt-thin tarball with no installation any additional packages. It's better just remove this IMPORTANT section.

Author: ok, I'll submit this removal separately.  locally committed.
